cool welcome to this live class by e2
language comm it's called IELTS reading
super skills why well I'm going to teach
you three things I'm going to teach you
the importance of the first sentence of
a paragraph I'm going to teach you the
importance of keywords and I'm going to
teach you the importance of synonyms if
you understand these three concepts and
the strategies behind them you can do
your IELTS reading a lot more
efficiently and you can do it a lot more
accurately so I took IELTS academic and
I got a nine Edwyn don't be nervous it's
all good all good so I got an IELTS 9
when I took mine and I while I was doing
the IELTS I was thinking about what how
do they construct these questions what's
going on here why is it so tricky why is
it so difficult right because the IELTS
reading is just tricky that's what it is
and it's these three concepts that you
need to understand in order to do it
well so let's look at the importance of
first sentences what does that mean well
I want you to read the first sentence to
get the main idea of a paragraph fast in
other words the first sentence of a
paragraph also called the topic sentence
introduces the paragraph it tells you
what the paragraph is going to be about
so if you know this and you can quickly
read that first sentence you do not have
to read the entire paragraph because in
matching headings for example you can
just read the first sentence of the
paragraph you don't need to read the
entire paragraph
even for multiple-choice if it's asking
your particular question you just read
the first sentence of the paragraph and
you'll know if the answer is in that
paragraph or in another paragraph ok so
which question types does it apply to it
applies to all of these true/false not
give them yes no not given matching
headings features information etc all of
these question types this is a key skill
let's do one so let me stop blathering
away what is this paragraph about just
read the first sentence you don't need
to read the rest of the sentences please
type it into the chat just read the
first sentence you don't need to read
the rest of the sentences a B C or D
good good stuff well done you got it yes
that by the way was very simple the
answer is D muscles why it says here our
muscles are amazing structures so the
rest of this paragraph is going to be
about muscles and their structures but
really it's going to be about muscles
okay if this paragraph if this sentence
is our brains are amazing structures you
know this is going to be about brains or
our arms or amazing structures you know
this is going to be about arms here
muscles so you know that the answer is D
muscles right that was too easy let's
make it a bit harder let's do this one
here a B C or D quickly choose your
answer you have 30 seconds
please read to the end of the sentence
flow
read to the end of the sentence the
first sentence
oh this one's a bit harder don't just
look for the keywords think about the
meaning of the first sentence what's the
meaning of the first sentence cool good
all right that one was harder well done
Vivian and Moser and swapna good that
one was a bit harder that one I did not
just match a keyword that one what I did
is I took the meaning of that sentence
and summarized it down into a few words
and the answer is a inspiration for
artificial muscles let's read the first
sentence and see why see it says here
variations of dynamic geometry appear
elsewhere in nature exhibiting a variety
of mechanisms and structures and
inspiring development in artificial
muscle technology so this dynamic
geometry is the inspiration for
artificial muscles
it's not about dynamic geometry it
mentions that that what's the real
meaning of the paragraph it's talking
about dynamic geometry in relation to
the being the inspiration for artificial
muscles so the answer there is a be
careful I'm going to keep tricking you
let's make it even harder now so let's
do this one
so it actually is probably slightly
easier
good Martha good
good Edwin good Donna
kudos Alma good Billy
cool this one was a bit easier ten
seconds
right let me appear the answer here is B
spider silk and water let's read the
first sentence here it says spider silk
is a natural biological material with
high sensitivity to water which inspires
us to study the interaction between
spider silk and water okay yes yes it
mentions spider silk but really it's
about it's about spider silk and water
together cool that's a good little
lesson right so we just learned that the
main idea of a paragraph is in the first
sentence fine now I want you to match
each paragraph to its main idea match
the paragraph to the main idea here we
go
go to Psalm all done we've got the first
one
good good within nice
you
thirty seconds left
five four three two one and fine what
are the answers well number one was
debating the causes it says here the
cause bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla
bla has been the source of scientific
debate right
so one be fine what about number two see
a spectacular interest bla bla bla bla
bla spectacular landscapes with the
fairy circles in Namibia holding special
interest for science scientists since
the 1970s therefore three must be a a
mystery unraveled one of nature's
greatest mysteries may have been
unraveled that was way too easy
and that never happens in the ions you
never find a keyword in the question and
the exact same keyword in the passage we
need to make it much harder I want you
to do that again but this time I've
changed the keywords in the passage to
synonyms okay so now you're going to
have to you're not just matching
word-for-word you're matching meaning
for meaning that's going to be critical
so let's do this one again this time it
will be harder
good Billy well done you've got it good
it been 30 seconds good swirl right now
good Donna
you
okay let's have a look at these answers
again you should only be reading the
first sentence of the paragraph not the
entire paragraphs so what are the
answers well let's have a look a
long-held and beautiful interest regular
vegetation patterns form spectacular
landscapes across the globe with the
fairy circles in Namibia holding special
interests for scientists since the 1970s
long-held since the 1970s beautiful
spectacular you can see the synonyms
here now you could have looked at
whoopsy let me go back on slow you could
have thought that that was a a long-held
and beautiful interest one of nature's
greatest mysteries may have been
unraveled by researchers but number two
is definitely a and you'll need to
consider this in when you're taking your
IELTS because sometimes you think oh it
could be that but then the following one
is definitely not that so you need to
think about the other possible headings
as well this one says a puzzle possibly
solved this one says a mystery unraveled
a mystery unraveled a puzzle solved
synonyms same meaning let's look at the
third one an ongoing dispute the cause
of the circular patches of Earth's
surrounded by grass has been the source
of scientific debate for decades so
ongoing for decades and a dispute debate
so there you go they were the answers
right that brings us to our next concept
that we need to understand and that is
the concept of keywords what a keywords
keywords are essential nouns verbs and
adjectives what does that mean well you
have two types of word
in a sentence you have keywords that
mean something and you have grammar
words that stick the sentence together
for example a key word might be computer
it means something if I say the word to
you computer you know you get a sense of
what that means but if I say the word to
you of or across or ears or slightly it
has less meaning okay so if I say a noun
like computer or if I say a verb like
think or if I say an adjective like
pretty or ugly it has meaning but other
words the little words typically that
stick the sentence together don't have
meaning you don't want to focus on them
a word like that has no meaning it needs
a noun so which question types are
keywords essential for for these ones in
fact really for all of them but
particularly these ones here how do you
find keywords well you need to identify
the nouns verbs and adjectives in the
question right then so you go to the
question first you need to find the key
word in the question then you find the
corresponding key words in the paragraph
right because you need to know where to
read then you stop when you found it in
the paragraph so let's say the key word
and the question is a computer and the
key word in the passage is computer
technology or information technology
okay you found the match so now you need
to stop and you need to zoom in on that
part and read that part of the paragraph
very carefully then you need to go back
and forth to the questions that what did
the question ask me does it say that
does its what did it say does it say
that and that's it's clumsy but that's
how you do a ons reading let's try first
I want you to identify key words in the
questions only
so look at these questions don't look at
the text I've already given them to you
sorry
fine let's just move on let's look at
these questions number one so it says
what syndrome can the new technology
help second one says what can the
computer decipher third question says
how did the participants report feeling
so the keyword in question one are going
to be words like syndrome why because
it's an unusual now right and technology
because it's a distinctive now another
two computer and decipher well this is
an interesting verb it's meaningful and
what about number three well report
feeling feelings going to be that the
key word there so now we need to find
the corresponding key words in the
paragraph and answer the question let's
do that
go ahead rush me you have the first one
well done good Vivian excellent good
Rachel
good asana yes that's fine
Vivian no worry it's good cieariy you've
got it cool ten seconds you should be
able to find this very quickly I don't
want you to read the text I want you to
scan the text three two one
there's the answer here let's have a
look so the answer is what syndrome can
the new technology help so I'm going to
scan read the text and I found the word
syndrome locked-in syndrome locked-in
syndrome that's the syndrome that's the
type of syndrome let's do number two
what can the computer decipher
go ahead good good good good excellent
you
ten seconds
cool let's have a look at this one so
what can the computer decipher it can
decipher thoughts or thoughts of people
thoughts that's what it can decipher or
understand cool the key word there was
decipher and here's the same keyword
here so this is an easy one let's do
number three very quickly you have ten
seconds ten nine eight seven six five
four three two one and cool most people
got it well done that was a that was an
easy one but good you can see that it
can just take you ten seconds if you
know what you're looking for if you know
what you're looking for it will help you
if you don't really read the question
properly you don't know what you're
looking for first of all you won't get
the question right but second of all
you're going to waste time and time is
very precious in IELTS reading there's
the answer there happy cool let's do a
task now I want you to employ those
three techniques identify key words in
the question first then find the
corresponding key words in the paragraph
then answer the question answer these
three questions please
you
good I wanted to actually answer the
question don't just find the paragraph
what's the answer to the question
you
good Billy well done
number three is a bit tricky Edwin I
want you to find the answer for number
four the questions and not just the
paragraph what are the answers what are
the words
good is too funny oh you've got number
three well done
you
no problem Vivian that's funny um good
asama excellence a summer I think you'll
do well in IELTS reading you're very
accurate and quite quick 30 seconds
10 seconds 3 2 1
cool well let's look at the answers so
what could possibly be causing dementia
what about this you could have just said
pollution that's fine and in the IELTS
it will say right no more than three
words or no more than four words and or
a number if it said no more than four
words you would probably write tiny air
pollution particles it depends on the
question it depends on the question but
pollution or if you wrote pollution
particles or this that was fine now this
is an interesting moments is what
percentage of dementia cases could be
attributed to air pollution now there's
a couple of possible answers here but
there's only one real correct one so
attributed to air pollution
this one says all the women who live in
places with fine particulate matter
exceeding the u.s.
blah-blah-blah-blah-blah 81% more at
risk for global cognitive decline and 92
percent more likely to develop dementia
but yes it could be that but here this
is a better answer
air pollution could be responsible for
about 21 percent of dementia cases what
percentage of dementia cases could be
attributed to air pollution 21 percent
of dementia cases could be rare
pollution could be responsible for about
21 percent that question is not a great
question it's a little bit ambiguous
let's look at number three what needs to
be in the surrounding environment to
increase cognitive decline so maybe your
key word is cognitive decline you can
see here cognitive decline here it says
scientists and engineers found that
older women who live in places with fine
particulate matter are more risk for
global cognitive decline the answer
there was fine particulate matter some
of you got that well-done cool let's now
think about synonyms because this is a
critical skill in IELTS reading as I
said very rarely if ever in the question
it will use the same word in the text
almost always it will use a synonym in
the text well what are synonyms a
synonym is a word with a similar meaning
or almost same meaning like big and
large are synonyms right tiny and small
synonyms
yes I could go on but I won't why are
they important because in IELTS reading
the words and the questions will be
different to the corresponding words in
the passage find the synonyms here we go
this will take you about three minutes
do it quickly please
you
I'll give you a hint these are in order
so the first one will be at the top the
last one number ten will be at the
bottom
good a summer good Donna well done hello
a roo palooka hoots a genie got number
one you need to do it quicker ruble ago
we're looking at synonyms so on the
left-hand side you'll see a list of
words in the text there'll be a word
that means the same thing you need to
spot them okay need to do it quickly
go to Sam well done
you
okay good some people up to number six
keep going faster and faster
you
good some people have got to know
ten already well done
back in one second
you
cool
well done one more minute
you should be quicker than this a good
question cherry that number twin nothin
in between number 10 cool let's get to
it I'll get to number 10 - Shari alright
let's check the answers here right so
here's another hint by the way in IELTS
the question types follow the text so as
you're going down you'll be going down
with the questions as well kids let's
look at the answers sorry kids children
right increase grow concentrate while
attention or pay attention recover
bounce back
permanent fixed errors mistakes
recoiling shying away from huh someone
avoiding glossing over a research
finding is an implication the main
implication here the main research
finding here and chance is opportunities
or chances it could be singular or
plural often we just use chance is a
singular noun we say are the chances no
no actually we do say chances the
chances though singular or plural let's
go back and think about these synonyms
though let's say in the question it said
something about kids and then in the
text it says something about children in
the question it says something about an
increase and here it says something
about growing in the question it says
something about concentrating and in the
text it says something about paying
attention recovering bouncing back
permanent fixed in the question it says
something about making errors in the
text that uses the word mistakes
recoiling shying away from avoiding
glossing over that what was the research
finding and here it says the main
implication so there's your synonym and
the chance what opportunity or
opportunities there you go so now what I
want you to do is find the synonym for
accidentally I'm going to show you a
large text with three paragraphs I want
to scan your eyes over the paragraphs to
find the word that means the same thing
as accidentally here we go
30 seconds
you
accidentally
what word means the same or similar
things you accidentally
you
ten seconds
three two one that was a hard one I
agree maybe I'm a bit of a cruel teacher
the answer there is inadvertently
accidentally hamper learning
inadvertently hamper learning if you are
inadvertently well done that's a tricky
word let's do an easy one
this one you need to find a synonym that
means the same thing as exert effort
exert effort exert effort
you
exert effort
I'm going to give you a hint it's in
paragraph a
you
good Edwin well done Vivian
good rush me well done
you
ten seconds exert effort
good repblica well done and Sherry's
got it
not quite Billy right let's look at the
answer to this one it is try harder to
try harder exert effort so that mention
the question said something about
exerting effort then the paragraph you
see the word try harder you know that
you're reading in the right spot cool
let's do one more
ah this one might have a couple that
endeavor endeavor endeavor whoopsie
whoopsie my apologies I need to check
these before I do them anyway I just
saved you the hard work strive endeavor
strive so how I would do that is let's
say the question says something about an
endeavor right and I know the meaning of
that word so I'm not going to look for
that particular word in the text I'll
keep the meaning in my head and I'm
going to quickly scan the paragraphs
endeavor endeavor hard work could be it
could be that I'll keep going positive
changes now are willing to try harder
we're not quite messages encourage
motivation and I'm just reading keywords
nouns and verbs people intelligence
genetically fixed excuse me
learning Albert Einstein Leonardo da
Vinci intelligence endeavor endeavor
endeavor people latter work Trump's
instant changes brain willing endeavor
strive Bob got it so that took some it
takes me ten seconds to find that spot
and how do I do it I keep the meaning in
my mind and I've read the nouns and the
verbs
that's all I don't read in depth there's
not enough time cool let's recap so in
this lesson we learnt that the first
sentence of a paragraph contains the key
information it introduces the paragraph
tells you what the paragraph is about
we learnt the importance of identifying
key words in the questions and the key
words in the text corresponding key
words in the text however key words
often become synonyms we also learned
that key words and nouns and verbs and
sometimes adjectives key words almost
always transform into synonyms so now
let's do a little mock test now before
we start I'm sorry but this is the same
one as I did last week I ran out of time
this afternoon to create a new one so if
you saw this last week I'm sorry you
might want to do it again and we'll
still be good practice why not but for
new people this will certainly be new
for you so let me disappear and start on
a multiple-choice question here
you
good such a nyan Osama well done you'll
just have to wait a little bit for the
others
you
cool 30 seconds
sorry this isn't multiple-choice it's
match headings
ten seconds
you
three two one and we move to the next
set of questions which is multiple
choice
you
thirty seconds
ten seconds
three two one and we move on to the
final ones true false not given
you
good such a knee Walton
we'll go to Q&A at the end Siri if you
have any questions ten seconds
three two one and cool bananas that's
probably enough time let's look at the
answers excuse me
now that's the appropriate heading ABC
or these similarities and behavior just
like the cuckoo the wasps sneak in and
lay their eggs in host nests just like
the cuckoo similarities in behavior
there you go a change of class
the revised genus they go a change of
class to be three new types of wasp nine
new gorgeously colored species of wasp
fine
number four unknown defense mechanisms
another interesting survival mechanism
blah-blah-blah-blah-blah they are the
answers to match headings here are the
answers to multiple choice the wasp
originates from China here you can see
the word China clip these from China
what is the wasps strange difference
nesting habits hmm where does it say
that
strange habits okay
hold on where is the word there's word
peculiar strange are here peculiar
parasitoid nesting habits strange
different nesting habits good six where
do the wasps lay their eggs in hosts
nests so here's the word egg here we go
just like the cuckoo the wasps sneak in
and lay their eggs in host nests that's
the answer four four five and six now
the wasp attacks its prey in the air not
given it mentions nothing about
attacking prey number eight the wasps
have several different names yes
where does it say that
did it do
the fur did it 9 did find the revised
genus common name suggests peculiar to
do are here they are also called dual
wasps gold wasps or emerald wasps they
go true 9 the wasp larvae consume the
mother wasp when hatched the larvae
consume the host egg or larvae false
final one is the wasps defense
mechanisms are not unusual here it's
talking about the defense mechanisms but
it says in nature this mechanism is also
seen in pill bugs and armadillos it's
not unusual true that's that there we go
let's go to QA but before you do do
check out e to language comm it's well I
think it's one of the best websites for
IELTS preparation online that's for sure
let's now go to Q&A if you have any
questions feel free to type them into
the chat um how did you go Donna got 7
out of 10 not bad well done need a bit
of practice but that's good
cool any questions type them in and I'll
also check out edwin got 8 no questions
on youtube not looking good a salman got
9 well done that's an excellent score
what else we got Satine
10 out of 10 congratulations that's
great
and when enjoyed
it is exciting I think it's good Siri
got eight moza got seven rush me us
these questions are common for both
general and academic ah these questions
are probably a little bit more academic
than general but I've made it slightly
I've tried to blend general and academic
together but it's slightly more on the
academic side so it's half you know
close to both okay series got a question
how to distinguish between false and not
given it's confusing okay yes I was very
worried about this too false means that
the information in the text contradicts
what's said in the question let's have a
look let's go back it's a good question
all right let's look at let's look at
this false one it says here the wasp
larvae consumed the mother wasp and here
it says when hatched the larvae consume
the host egg or larvae so it's false
it's directly contradicting what's said
in the text for not given it doesn't
mention anything about it
so the wasp attacks its prey in the air
there's nothing mentioned in the text
about that okay so that's the difference
between false and not given ah yes rush
me we currently the only difference
between general and academic IELTS is
writing task 1 that's the big difference
and then readings slightly different we
currently have
IELTS academic however we are about to
upload our IELTS general and so in the
meantime what we can do is send you some
stuff or you can just practice on the
IELTS academic because the question
types are exactly the same so it's still
excellent practice cool all right let me
stop screen sharing there and let me
turn this off on YouTube
cool bananas